pr-925/components-gallery/steps/datasampler.md, before:

---
hide:
  - navigation
---
# DataSampler

Step to sample from a dataset.



`GeneratorStep` that samples from a dataset and yields it in batches.





### Attributes

- **data**: The list of dictionaries to sample from.

- **size**: The number of samples per example.

- **samples**: The number of examples.





### Input & Output Columns

``` mermaid
graph TD
	subgraph Dataset
		subgraph New columns
			OCOL0[dynamic]
		end
	end

	subgraph DataSampler
		StepOutput[Output Columns: dynamic]
	end

	StepOutput --> OCOL0

```




#### Outputs


- **dynamic** (based on the keys found on the first dictionary of the list): The columns  of the dataset.





### Examples


#### Sample data from a list of dictionaries
```python
from distilabel.steps import DataSampler

sampler = DataSampler(
    data=[{"sample": f"sample {i}"} for i in range(30)],
    samples=10,
    size=2,
    batch_size=4
)
sampler.load()

result = next(sampler.process())
# >>> result
# ([{'sample': ['sample 7', 'sample 0']}, {'sample': ['sample 2', 'sample 21']}, {'sample': ['sample 17', 'sample 12']}, {'sample': ['sample 2', 'sample 14']}], False)
```

#### Pipeline with a loader and a sampler combined in a single stream
```python
from datasets import load_dataset

from distilabel.steps import LoadDataFromDicts, DataSampler
from distilabel.steps.tasks.apigen.utils import PrepareExamples
from distilabel.pipeline import Pipeline

ds = (
    load_dataset("Salesforce/xlam-function-calling-60k", split="train")
    .shuffle(seed=42)
    .select(range(500))
    .to_list()
)

with Pipeline(name="APIGenPipeline") as pipeline:
    loader_seeds = LoadDataFromDicts(data=data)
    sampler = DataSampler(
        data=ds,
        size=2,
        samples=len(data),
        batch_size=8,
    )
    prep_examples = PrepareExamples()

    sampler >> prep_examples
    (
        [loader_seeds, prep_examples]
        >> combine_steps
    )
# Now we have a single stream of data with the loader and the sampler data
```

Commit message:

Deployed d501331 to pr-925 with MkDocs 1.6.1 and mike 2.1.3

pr-925/components-gallery/steps/datasampler.md, after:

---
hide:
  - navigation
---
# DataSampler

Step to sample from a dataset.



`GeneratorStep` that samples from a dataset and yields it in batches.
    This step is useful when you have a pipeline that can benefit from using examples
    in the prompts for example as few-shot learning, that can be changing on each row.
    For example, you can pass a list of dictionaries with N examples and generate M samples
    from it (assuming you have another step loading data, this M should have the same size
    as the data being loaded in that step). The size S argument is the number of samples per
    row generated, so each example would contain S examples to be used as examples.





### Attributes

- **data**: The list of dictionaries to sample from.

- **size**: Number of samples per example. For example in a few-shot learning scenario,  the number of few-shot examples that will be generated per example. Defaults to 2.

- **samples**: Number of examples that will be generated by the step in total.  If used with another loader step, this should be the same as the number  of samples in the loader step. Defaults to 100.





### Input & Output Columns

``` mermaid
graph TD
	subgraph Dataset
		subgraph New columns
			OCOL0[dynamic]
		end
	end

	subgraph DataSampler
		StepOutput[Output Columns: dynamic]
	end

	StepOutput --> OCOL0

```




#### Outputs


- **dynamic** (based on the keys found on the first dictionary of the list): The columns  of the dataset.





### Examples


#### Sample data from a list of dictionaries
```python
from distilabel.steps import DataSampler

sampler = DataSampler(
    data=[{"sample": f"sample {i}"} for i in range(30)],
    samples=10,
    size=2,
    batch_size=4
)
sampler.load()

result = next(sampler.process())
# >>> result
# ([{'sample': ['sample 7', 'sample 0']}, {'sample': ['sample 2', 'sample 21']}, {'sample': ['sample 17', 'sample 12']}, {'sample': ['sample 2', 'sample 14']}], False)
```

#### Pipeline with a loader and a sampler combined in a single stream
```python
from datasets import load_dataset

from distilabel.steps import LoadDataFromDicts, DataSampler
from distilabel.steps.tasks.apigen.utils import PrepareExamples
from distilabel.pipeline import Pipeline

ds = (
    load_dataset("Salesforce/xlam-function-calling-60k", split="train")
    .shuffle(seed=42)
    .select(range(500))
    .to_list()
)

with Pipeline(name="APIGenPipeline") as pipeline:
    loader_seeds = LoadDataFromDicts(data=data)
    sampler = DataSampler(
        data=ds,
        size=2,
        samples=len(data),
        batch_size=8,
    )
    prep_examples = PrepareExamples()

    sampler >> prep_examples
    (
        [loader_seeds, prep_examples]
        >> combine_steps
    )
# Now we have a single stream of data with the loader and the sampler data
```
