# LoadDataFromFileSystem


Loads a dataset from a file in your filesystem.



`GeneratorStep` that creates a dataset from a file in the filesystem, uses Hugging Face `datasets`
    library. Take a look at [Hugging Face Datasets](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/loading)
    for more information of the supported file types.





### Attributes

- **data_files**: The path to the file, or directory containing the files that conform  the dataset.

- **split**: The split of the dataset to load (typically will be `train`, `test` or `validation`).




### Runtime Parameters

- **batch_size**: The batch size to use when processing the data.

- **data_files**: The path to the file, or directory containing the files that conform  the dataset.

- **split**: The split of the dataset to load. Defaults to 'train'.

- **streaming**: Whether to load the dataset in streaming mode or not. Defaults to  `False`.

- **num_examples**: The number of examples to load from the dataset.  By default will load all examples.

- **storage_options**: Key/value pairs to be passed on to the file-system backend, if any.  Defaults to `None`.

- **filetype**: The expected filetype. If not provided, it will be inferred from the file extension.  For more than one file, it will be inferred from the first file.



### Input & Output Columns

``` mermaid
graph TD
	subgraph Dataset
		subgraph New columns
			OCOL0[dynamic]
		end
	end

	subgraph LoadDataFromFileSystem
		StepOutput[Output Columns: dynamic]
	end

	StepOutput --> OCOL0

```




#### Outputs


- **dynamic** (`all`): The columns that will be generated by this step, based on the  datasets loaded from the Hugging Face Hub.







