---
hide:
  - navigation
---
# LoadDataFromHub

Loads a dataset from the Hugging Face Hub.



`GeneratorStep` that loads a dataset from the Hugging Face Hub using the `datasets`
    library.





### Attributes

- **repo_id**: The Hugging Face Hub repository ID of the dataset to load.

- **split**: The split of the dataset to load.

- **config**: The configuration of the dataset to load. This is optional and only needed  if the dataset has multiple configurations.




### Runtime Parameters

- **batch_size**: The batch size to use when processing the data.

- **repo_id**: The Hugging Face Hub repository ID of the dataset to load.

- **split**: The split of the dataset to load. Defaults to 'train'.

- **config**: The configuration of the dataset to load. This is optional and only  needed if the dataset has multiple configurations.

- **revision**: The revision of the dataset to load. Defaults to the latest revision.

- **streaming**: Whether to load the dataset in streaming mode or not. Defaults to  `False`.

- **num_examples**: The number of examples to load from the dataset.  By default will load all examples.

- **storage_options**: Key/value pairs to be passed on to the file-system backend, if any.  Defaults to `None`.



### Input & Output Columns

``` mermaid
graph TD
	subgraph Dataset
		subgraph New columns
			OCOL0[dynamic]
		end
	end

	subgraph LoadDataFromHub
		StepOutput[Output Columns: dynamic]
	end

	StepOutput --> OCOL0

```




#### Outputs


- **dynamic** (`all`): The columns that will be generated by this step, based on the  datasets loaded from the Hugging Face Hub.





### Examples


#### Load data from a dataset in Hugging Face Hub
```python
from distilabel.steps import LoadDataFromHub

loader = LoadDataFromHub(
    repo_id="distilabel-internal-testing/instruction-dataset-mini",
    split="test",
    batch_size=2
)
loader.load()

# Just like we saw with LoadDataFromDicts, the `process` method will yield batches.
result = next(loader.process())
# >>> result
# ([{'prompt': 'Arianna has 12...', False)
```




